My research projects would not have been possible without the support of many people. Among all of them, I owe my biggest thanks to my adviser, Bryan Clark. Without his help, I would never know the fun of numerical analysis, and I would never discover the beauty of the tensor network representation. I still remember the time when Bryan helped me build my first amateur implementation of the density matrix renormalization group algorithm one function at a time. Every little success built up my confidence in learning more about the tensor networks. To me, Bryan is more like a inspiring friend who is always ready to offer help and critical thinking. His emphasis on clear physics pictures helped shape the way that I approach complicated problems and the way that I communicate my thoughts. Bryan also encouraged me to work on the topic of many-body localization and helped me getting started, and kept offering new ideas on how to approach the MBL physics. Over the years, he read numerous revisions of my drafts, and helped make some sense of the confusion. These helped me greatly in arriving where I am today. I would like to thank Taylor Hughes for helping me learn and explore topological phases and quantum entanglement when I was early in my graduate school life. From the numerous discussions with him, I came to understand the basics of many topics, including entanglement entropy, topological phases, and conformal field theory. I am also grateful that Taylor encouraged me to interact more frequently with other senior graduate students and the post docs, which helped me to jump start my own research experience. Among the post docs, it is a great pleasure for me to meet Victor Chua. He was very patient with my amateur questions. We had a lot of fun chatting about many physics topics. From Victor, I learned how to implement the exact diagonalization method, how to optimize the code, what is parallelization, and numerous other skills to get started on doing numerical analysis. He was a friend and mentor to me. We used to have long blackboard discussions or coding sessions on the third floor of ESB, even on weekends. I am also grateful to Xiao Chen. I had the pleasure of working on two projects with him. Xiao is a nice and brilliant person, and I always wondered how he could come up with that many research topics. He helped me understand the way of research, and shared many thoughts over discussions in ESB, or over phone calls, or even at friends gatherings. He is always energetic and supportive.