First and foremost, I would like to thank my advisors, Professor Yann Chemla and Professor Martin Gruebele, for being fantastic mentors, for showing me the way forward, for supporting and respecting me and my ideas. They taught me most of what I know about research: how to come up with new ideas, how to test them, how to combine experimental, analytical and computational approaches, and how to communicate scientific findings effectively. Martin’s enthusiasm and Yann’s cautious optimism have been my beacons in the night at times when I though that nothing is ever going to work. I could never have completed this work without their guidance and support. I would like to thank senior students in Chemla and Gruebele lab, who I was working with when I just joined the lab, especially Patrick Mears and Hannah Gelman. Their competence, patience, and mentoring skills created an encouraging and stimulating learning environment. I would like to especially thank my E. coli comrade, Roshni Bano, a younger student in the lab who joined a few years after me. It has been a pleasure to work with her: together we did multiple rounds of trap re-allignment, planned experiments for the CPLC summer school, mentored students and discussed papers. She has been incredibly supportive and patient with me, especially for the last couple of months, which I am sure was not easy. Roshni’s curiosity, enthusiasm and initiative in the academic environment and beyond have been an example for me. I would like to thank Alice Troitskaya for carefully proof-reading all of the texts without articles that I have written and patiently explaining why, when and where they have to be put in. I also thank Yann, Martin, Kevin Whitley, Roshni, Alice, Kaitlin Sumler, Clara Duarte and Nicole Curtis for proof-reading my thesis. I would like to thank Ruopei Feng, our data analysis/computer hardware guru, for generously sharing his skills and knowledge. I would like to thank all the former and current members of Chemla and Gruebele lab, for creating a great working and learning environment. In addition to those mentioned above, I would like to thank Max Prigozhin, Max Platkov, Irisbel Guzman, Anna-Jean Wirth, Lance Min, Barbara Stekas, Kiran Girdhar,