There are an enormous number of people to whom I owe thanks for the completion of this dissertation and the associated degree. No large work like this happens in a vacuum, and I can say with all honesty and sincerity that I would not have been able to complete this work without the kindness, consultation, and contribution of dozens of people. Although I will attempt, here, to enumerate those individuals, I will undoubtedly miss someone. So, let me start by just saying a general “thank you” to anyone and everyone who has been in my life the last four years. Thank you. To begin, I certainly could not have gotten here without the repeated, stimulating conversations with my advisor Neal Cohen. Whether it be discussing abstract ideas about memory organization or books on Time Travel, our meetings were a constant inspiration to think abstractly about the nature of memory and intelligence. The freedom, latitude, and patience Neal has shown me during my time at University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) cannot be overstated, and I feel unbelievably lucky to have found my way into being his student. I would also like to thank my Committee, past and present, for their counsel and participation in all the steps of this process. Aron Barbey, Rama Ratnam, Arne Ekstrom, and Mark Nelson have provided me with a wonderful diversity of opinion and idea without which I would have struggled to organize the concepts presented in this document. To my lab mates – I have truly loved working with every one of you. From the first day on interviews when Kelsey Hassevoort found me and told me I needed to come interview with the lab, to the countless nights out discussing all manner of memory, science, and sci-fi with Michael Dulas, a graduate student could hardly ask for a more supportive and encouraging group. I want to especially thank Patrick Watson for his mentorship during my first year at UIUC, Hillary Schwarb and Michael Dulas for their constant support and patience with my attempts to understand complex topics in Cognitive Science and Psychology and for reviewing and editing this dissertation, and all the other post-doc and graduate students in the lab, Judy Chiu, Heather Lucas, and John Walker, with whom I’ve had so many helpful and important conversations. I would also like to thank the lab research assistants and managers, Nick Parks, Faizan Khawaja, Nirav Patel, and Rachel Gonzalez for their help in navigating the logistics of science and the undergraduates who helped collect so much of the data in this document: Ezra Winter-Nelson, Tea Garibovic, Connor Dyer, Davis Gerew, Rebecca Golden, Vaughn Hage, Niki Nesnidal, and Catherine Schmid.