Upon finishing this thesis, my deepest gratitude goes to my advisor Professor Jont Allen. His immense knowledge in math and physics always inspires me to learn more and be original; his unfathomable experiences in engineering have led him to train us uniquely and patiently to achieve more independence; his passion to help the disadvantaged motivates our work. Sometimes, when I doubted my work because of other opinions in the field, he would always encourage me to see my own path. I would never have known anything about reading disabilities in children without hours of discussion and tutoring from Professor Cynthia Johnson. Her meticulous attitude towards re- search, untiring passion for teaching and her kind encouragement have benefited me tremendously. She also imparted to me the mindset of being open and friendly towards related research. I sincerely thank Professor Rizwan Uddin, Professor Yang Zhang, Professor Robert Wickes- berg, and Professor Elizabeth Stine-Morrow for offering to sit on my committee. Their instrumen- tal comments and advice have greatly enriched my perception of my study. I am especially indebted to my department for my study and research for these years. When I was in deep trouble and hopeless, Professor James Stubbins, Becky Meline and all my other friends in the department were extremely understanding and presented opportunities and help. I am grateful to Professor Lingjian Meng and Professor Claire Sullivan for their guidance and training and being role models in carrying out authentic research. I am also very grateful to Professor Kozlowski, Professor Axford, Professor Allain, and Professor Meng for accepting me as a teaching assistant and being willing to show me various ways of effective teaching. I am also very lucky to have many great colleagues and friends: Carolina, Hao X., Mervyn, Jeff, Alethia, Cliston, Michael, Dennis, Noori, Sarah, Ali, Liang, Nan, Xiaochun L., Umer, Sapna, Sushant, Mauricio, Kruti, Hao H., Jacob, Rinat, Abhishek, Rakesh, Sam, Szewing, Hsingtzu, Shiyu, Peibei, Xilu, Erica, Prashant, Jag, Xiang, Wendan, Roland, Joanne, Priya, Yijia, Mark, Ellen, Xinying and Suman. Life in grad school would not have been so warm and colorful without their friendship. Lastly, I want to thank my parents and my brother for their love and encouragement. They always remind me of a starting point when I was young, desiring and striving for knowledge. Added by Advisor: We would like to give a special thank you to Yashuo Wu for her unselfish help in making many final corrections and updates to Jie’s thesis, when Jie unexpectedly returned to her family in China, soon after her thesis defense. Once it was clear that Jie need help to make final corrections, Yashuo graciously offered to help, and that she did. Jie has a friend in deed, when she was in great need. February 26, 2018