I would like to express my great appreciation to all the people who offered me support and made my PhD journey very enjoyable and interesting. First and foremost, I would like to express my gratitude for Prof. Chew who was extremely supportive and patient with me throughout my PhD. As my academic mentor he has taught me more than I can give his credit for. He has shown, by example, what a good scientist (and person) should be. I feel extremely privileged to have him as my advisor and consider him as a role model for my future endeavors. I would like to thank my wonderful colleagues and for their camaraderie over the past four years.  Our discussions and arguments were the fertile soil for intellectual development. The evenings spent playing video games in the office with Ruizhi and the numerous coffee trips and lunch breaks with Hoaran will be some of the most cherished memories of my time at UIUC. I would like to thank my roommates Shripad and Giri for making the research less boring and painful by providing much needed distractions. I enjoyed all the TV shows, board games and numerous evening walks we had together. I appreciate the friendships that we have maintained since our days at IIT Bombay. I would also like to thank Giri, Shekhar, Mim, Mai, Will and Dylan for coming together to form the Sunday night trivia team. Despite our consistent mediocre performance, we continued to show up for trivia every week over the past two years. It was a true testament of the persistence necessary for grad school. Most importantly, I would like to thank my parents and my sister, Pinu. Their love and encouragement has always been with me and has helped me throughout my PhD journey. I am also grateful for the support of Datta mama and Madhu tai who were my closest family and home in the US. Lastly, I would like to express my appreciation for Krannert Center for Performing Arts at UIUC. I have been a regular patron of their orchestras over the past 4 years and I am constantly amazed by the quality of artists they attract and the phenomenal music they bring to the community.