In addition to the members of my committee, I will forever be grateful to the following people, as well as others unnamed. My beloved host communities of Paris, Calca, Arles, and Saguenay, for which I have high integrative or ideal self motivation. And my host community of Champaign-Urbana, for which I initially had an instrumental motivation which eventually (begrudgingly) became integrative. Particular thanks for this are due to the smaller communities of the Foreign Languages Building, Amasong, and Community United Church of Christ. Zsuzsanna Fagyal for her unwavering support and ingenuity at every step of the process. Aurore Mroz for bravely tackling this project as a co-director. It’s been an honor and a delight to be your first advisee. My wonderful committee members for their hours of guidance and expertise. Annie Tremblay and Ryan Shosted for their guidance in the design of the study. Chris Carignan for generously allowing me to use his sound files for my perception experiment. Stéphanie Gaillard for generously providing me with her proficiency testing instrument, and Charlotte Prieu for generously lending her voice. Vincent Arnaud, Mélanie Vézina, Guy Luys, Mélanie Boissier, Caroline Siguin, and Josiane Riverin for their logistical support during my field work. Jui Namjoshi, Joe Roy, Yury Borukhovich, Elizabeth Wickes, Sara Ann Mason, and Daniel Scarpace for their invaluable technical assistance. My parents, Kim and Kathryn Nicholas, my brother, Jason Nicholas, and my friends and family, for their emotional support and patience during my extended absence. Alain Fresco, Edward Costello, and Katie Thornton for their willingness to help me learn about their programs, and the late Liz Partolan-Fray for training me in the field of study abroad. Sammy, Rorschach, Sherman Fuzzmonster III, Phoenix, Xavier, Bogle, Champster, Gladys the Impaler, and Lucas Silvers, for being family. All my teachers and mentors, past and present, including the late Debbie Lovato (my first French teacher) and Fallou Ngom (my first French Linguistics professor). All the participants who participated in the native speaker control groups. And, most of all, many thanks to the native speakers who formed my control group, and to the remarkable students who so generously shared their time and ideas with me for the purpose of this research and for the improvement of study abroad programs.