First, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to my adviser, mentor and friend, Professor Yanfeng Ouyang, for his constant help, guidance, inspiration, and encouragement on all aspects of my life throughout my graduate studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. It was he who guided me into the areas of transportation and operations research, provided me with access to diverse challenging problems, and helped me conceive and carry out this dissertation work. His challenging mind, dedicated attitude, and endless passion shaped my determination toward excellence and in pursuit of my career. I am also very grateful to the three other members of my committee, Professor Karthik Chan- drasekaran, Professor Xin Chen and Professor Hadi Meidani. Their valuable comments and sug- gestions along the way have substantially helped me improve this dissertation. From their classes and seminars, I have also learned a great deal of fundamental knowledge and methodologies on which my research is based. This research has also much benefited from the courses I have taken from many departments at the University of Illinois. I want to express my sincere thanks to all the professors I have learned from and interacted with. Next, I would like to particularly thank my collaborators Xiaopeng Li, Xi Chen, Zhaodong Wang, Kamalesh Somani, Jing Huang, Kun An, Chao Lei, Zhoutong Jiang, who collaborated with me on a number of research topics and helped me with modeling, programming, writing, etc. I also sincerely appreciate the friendship and generous help, both in research and in life, from all my former and current colleagues, including Fan Peng, Yun Bai, Taesung Huang, Seyed Mohammad Nourbakhsh, Leila Hajibabai, Xin Wang, Weijun Xie, Liqun Lu, Laura Ghosh, Antoine Petit, Han Liu. Finally, I want to send my special thanks to my family, my loved, and my friends. Without their love and support, I could not have gone through the hard times to finish this dissertation. I acknowledge financial support from the National Science Foundation, CSX Transportation, Inc., the Roadway Safety Institute (U.S. DOT Region V University Transportation Center), and the Association of American Railroads (AAR).