I would first like to thank my adviser Peter for his patience, guidance, and support throughout my time as a graduate student. I was extremely lucky to be a member of the friendliest research group in the most amicable physics department. I would like to express my gratitude to my committee members Professors Chiang, Clark, and Cooper for their support on this work. Young, Gan, Anshul: you are still a major influence in the way I approach experiments. Your per- sonality, curiosity, and honesty were lessons on how to live within the battle for glory that science often becomes. Sangjun, Yhizhi, Stella, and Anna: through talking to you I developed what skills I have as an experimentalist. Thanks for your mentoring, help, and good humor in the lab, and during brain-melting nights at the beam lines. Thanks to James, Xiao, Jeremy, Sean, Mindy, Ali, Matteo and Sam for all the helpful discussions, the snacks, and for keeping morale high in the office. Thanks to David for the first resistivity measurements and for teaching me about sample growth, and to Kannan for taking a large role in both steps. Thanks to Mauro for being so warm to me. Lance for deeply caring about students. Jim and Ernie, for always delivering in the shop. Luc and Youli for assistance with designs and setups. Diego, Ayman, Bogdan, Fanny, Jessica, Jun-Sik, and Hoyoung, for their help, explanations, and criticisms at the end-stations. Thanks to Jacob and Ken at CHESS, this work was only possible through your support; I want to be as cool as you when I grow up. Thanks to my coach, Nelson Luyando, and all the people at the Luyando Boxing Club: Mia, Nate, Kenny, Kofi, Huey, Ramsay, Paradise, Brandon, Boom Boom, Nicole, Tarik, Diego, Damian, Alfonso, Juan, Gabriel, Mike, Dom, Justin, Lu Ann, Seth, Kevin, Ed, Kat, Heywad, Jose´, and everyone else I’ve missed. To you I owe my mental and physical health. You became my family away from home and my roots in the Champaign-Urbana community. Thank you, Pedro, Camila, Juan, Javier, Pam, Sergio, Mar´ıa, Valde, Amir, Roberto, Mau, Apoorv, Mohamed, Megan, Srinidhi, Phil, Rea, David, Yakov, Rolando, Alberto, and Carlos. The lens through which I see the world is forever tinted by your friendship. You have a home wherever I am.