There are many people I need to thank for making my time in graduate school both successful and enjoyable. First and foremost, I would like to express my gratitude to my advisor and mentor Taylor L. Hughes. I want to thank him for his moral support and encouragement, for supporting me as a research assistant for many semesters, and for supporting my travel to various conferences and workshops. In addition, I would especially like to thank him for giving me the freedom to explore many different research topics that I found to be interesting. I feel that I was able to learn a lot about many different subjects because of the freedom that Taylor gave me to explore them and the interest he showed when I proposed new ideas to him. I also want to thank our collaborators Jeffrey C.Y. Teo, Gil Young Cho, Chao-Ming Jian, and Peng Ye. Our work with Chao-Ming Jian and Peng Ye appears in Chapter 4 of this thesis and I would like to thank them for giving me their permission to include that work here. Next, I would like to thank Philippe Di Francesco for ongoing collaborations in mathematical physics, for teaching me about integrable models and combinatorics, for his constant encouragement, and for supporting my travel to the 2017 “Exact methods in low-dimensional physics” summer school at the Institut d’Etudes Scientifiques in Carge`se. I would also like to thank Rinat Kedem for her course on group representation theory, for introducing me to the literature on Bethe Ansatz, and for many helpful discussions. I would like to thank the other members of my thesis committee; Bryce Gadway, Robert G. Leigh, and Michael Stone. I am very grateful to them for agreeing to serve on the committee and for taking the time to read about my work and discuss it with me. I would especially like to thank Professor Stone for his mathematical physics course and for many discussions on mathematical topics which were very helpful for the work contained in this thesis. In particular, Professor Stone introduced me to equivariant cohomology, which plays a major role in Chapters 4 and 5 of the thesis. I would also thank to thank Professor Leigh for his quantum field theory and AdS/CFT correspondence courses, as well as for discussions on nonlinear sigma models. I would also like to thank Shinsei Ryu for serving as the chair of the first version of the committee. I need to thank many professors, postdocs, and graduate students who I have learned from during many discussions over the years, including Wladimir Benalcazar, Barry Bradlyn, Jackson Fliss, Eduardo Fradkin, Andrey Gromov, Mayukh Khan, Kridsanaphong Limtragool, Ian Mondragon-Shem, Onkar Parrikar, Srinidhi Ramamurthy, Luiz Santos,