Looking back these five years, I had an unexpectedly exciting journey. For that, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to my adviser Brighten Godfrey. He taught me to identify and work on important research challenges, provided me numerous brilliant technical insights in our weekly meetings and supported me with firm trust through the difficult times in the beginning of my thesis research. He has taught me how to approach research problems and cultivated me to become an independent researcher. He did not only give me high degree of freedom in research but also altruistically tailored his invaluable efforts and guidance to fit my future career goals. When I was a child, I was taught an old Chinese saying: a true mentor shall be respected as one’s own father. I regard Brighten, with his pure and altruistic mentorship, as my first true mentor. I also feel fortunate to be his friend and share many fun and exciting moments in life. I would also like to sincerely thank professor Matthew Caesar. I will always remember the midnight when he came to office to find a server for a time-sensitive experiment of mine. I also received invaluable feedbacks on various research projects from him. I would also like to thank professor Klara Nahrstedt and Jana Iyengar, who provided validation in various stages of my research and served in my PhD committee later on. I feel lucky to collaborate with some of the most brilliant minds in networking community. I would like to thank Qingxi Li, Tong Meng, Xuefeng Zhu, Michael Schapira, Doron Zarchy and Yossi Gilad for their indispensable collaboration on PCC project. I would also like to thank my friends and colleagues in NetSys group: Sangeetha A. J. and Santhosh Prabhu, for their collaboration on research projects and other fun projects that are not included in the thesis. I would like thank Ian Swett, Jo Kulik and Jana Iyengar for their interests in my thesis research and, collaboration and help to push PCC to large-scale production deployments. I would like to thank Igor Ganichev and Teemu Koponen who were my mentors during my internship in Nicira and taught me a great deal