I would like to express my deepest appreciation and gratitude to my advisor, Rakesh Bhatt, for his unwavering support, insight and encouragement during my graduate school career. I am grateful not only for Rakesh as an advisor, professor and mentor, but for the community of scholars at the University of Illinois he has fostered and supported. His dedication and enthusiasm for the study of language and society is only matched by his dedication and enthusiasm for his students and their ideas – he is and will always be a model of encouraging beginning scholars and developing community. I will be forever indebted to have had Rakesh as an advisor, professor and mentor and thank him for his tireless enthusiasm and support for his students. I would also like to thank the community of Linguistic Landscape researchers. I am incred- ibly lucky to have read a Linguistic Landscapes paper my first year of graduate school, pursue my own study the following year and present it to the Sociolinguistic Symposium conference in 2014 thereby stumbling into the most welcoming, inclusive and supportive community for beginning scholars. In particular I thank Deirdre Dunlevy, Will Amos, Robert Blackwood, Stefania Tufi and Adam Jaworski for being so welcoming when I first met you in Finland and for your continuing generosity in sharing your invaluable expertise, feedback and friendship. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to the organizers and participants of the Linguistic Landscapes workshops in Berkeley, Liverpool and Luxembourg for fostering such a collaborative and supportive community of scholars. I will always be deeply indebted to the patience, willingness and enthusiasm of the Linguistic Landscape community in sharing feedback and support of new work. I also express my sincerest gratitude to Jeffrey Kallen for providing invaluable insights, suggestions and encouragement before, during and after researching and writing my dissertation. Your mentorship was indispensable during this