The very first person that I would like to mention is my PhD advisor, Professor Sheldon H. Jacobson. I am very fortunate to have him as my advisor and really grateful for invaluable advice that he has provided me over the last several years. I am hugely indebted to his insightful guidance and thoughtful encouragement throughout my PhD study in Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering at the Uni- versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. I am also very grateful for my PhD Final Examination (Defense) Committee members – Professor Karthik Chandrasekaran, Professor Niao He, and Professor Rakesh Nagi – and Professor Jason J. Sauppe who gave me a lot of feedback when I was working on this research. I would like to express my gratitude to Professor Negar Kiyavash as well for being my Preliminary Examination Committee mem- ber and I thank Professor Alex Olshevsky and Professor Sewoong Oh for being my first year advisors at Illinois. I would like to thank my MPhil advisor Professor Sujoy Mukerji and Professor Marcel Fafchamps for their help when I was transitioning from an MPhil stu- dent in economics at the University of Oxford to a PhD student in engineering at Illinois. I am grateful to Professor Gyo Taek Jin, Professor Sang-il Oum, Profes- sor Yoon-Jae Whang, Professor Elias Sanidas and Professor Roland Herzog who provided support and guidance when I was starting an intellectual journey as a graduate student. Additionally, my thanks should go to the Mavis Fellowship program from Col- lege of Engineering at Illinois for providing a great training opportunity in addi- tion to the financial support. Financial support in the form of research and teaching assistantship from Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering (ISE) · Computational Science and Engineering Program (CSE) · Department of Computer Science (CS) at Illinois is gratefully acknowledged. I also highly ap- preciate Samsung Scholarship Foundation which provided me a generous support during my master’s study and the University of Oxford for its institutional support