My journey as a Doctoral student has been extremely memorable due to the vast amount of experiences associated with it. I am really thankful to my advisor, Tarek Abdelzaher, who motivated and inspired me to develop the qualities of a researcher. His critics constantly helped me in improving my skills in different areas such as high quality writing and presen- tation style. Without his help this thesis would not have been possible. He also provided me with the opportunity to develop a software toolkit that incorporates the algorithms de- scribed in this thesis. The development of this toolkit allowed me to present my research to a broader audience. The demo of my toolkit also won the “Best Runner-Up” award at an international conference attended by several researchers actively working in my domain. I would also like to thank my committee members: Jiawei Han, Hari Sundaram, and Lance Kaplan for the numerous help, suggestions, and support provided for the completion of my thesis. Thanks to the University of Illinois Department of Computer Science and the support staff for helping me carry out the tasks associated with administration and conference travels. Research published in this dissertation has been funded by grants from U.S. Army Research Laboratory. My collaborator, Lance Kaplan, from the U.S. Army Research Laboratory deserves a big thanks for his guidance and advice during my visits. I am really grateful for the numerous brainstorming sessions with him. I would like to thank Tanvir Amin who helped me during the initial phase of my graduate program. I would also like to thank Shiguang Wang for collaborating on a few projects and helping me with the experiments. I am also thankful to other labmates and collaborators, who helped shape up my research. I cannot possibly include all the names here, but I would specially thank Jongdeog Lee, Shuochao Yao, Shaohan Hu, and Huajie Shao. I was born and raised in India and completed my high school during the era of technical boom which led to the emergence of many big computer related industries. I completed my Bachelor’s degree from BITS-Pilani, India with a major in Computer Science. It was my professors there who taught me the fundamentals of Computer Science and Engineering, inspired me to pursue a Ph.D. in Computer Science, and made me aware of the social and ethical responsibilities a scientist should hold. I want to take some time to thank my undergraduate advisor, Professor Chittaranjan Hota, who provided me with the opportunity to work on various research projects under his guidance which inculcated the desire in me to pursue a graduate program. This journey to doctoral thesis is a long one. Without the love, inspiration, and support from my parents it would have been difficult to complete this journey thousands of miles