I would like to begin by thanking my advisor, Roy Campbell, for his guidance and sup- port. His advice guided my development as a researcher and was invaluable throughout my graduate school career. These past five years have been filled with meetings which shaped not only this dissertation, but also my overall approach to research. Thanks for being a great mentor and friend, Roy! I would also like to express my gratitude to my committee members, Carl Gunter, Adam Bates, and Hamed Okhravi, whose comments and questions helped me to contextualize my work. Their feedback and encouragement helped to shape this dissertation and I appreciate the time and ideas they have contributed to this work. Many thanks are owed Zak Estrada for his encouragement as I delved into operating system development. Zak introduced me to the world of low-level development and provided technical guidance throughout my graduate career. Without him, this work would not have been realized. I have also appreciated the insightful advice from Zbigniew Kalbarczyk. He encouraged me to find the core contributions of my work which has helped me provide more clarity in my writing and presentations. Thank you for your thorough reviews and the great advice. Additionally, I would like to thank all of the wonderful people I worked with at MIT Lincoln Laboratory: Thomas Moyer, Rick Skowyra, Nabil Schear, and Hamed Okhravi. Their guidance on everything from low-level technical details to writing style has made the final portions of my dissertation possible. Thanks to Thomas Morris who hired me as an undergraduate researcher in his security lab. Morris’ lab provided my first exposure to security research and scientific writing. Without that first introduction to research, I might never have pursued graduate school. Thanks for the opportunity. My current and former colleagues in the Systems Research Group deserve special men- tion. They have made my time here quite memorable and have been a constant source of inspiration and entertainment. I want to thank Imani Palmer and Hadi Hashemi for their honest feedback as I prepared various presentations. Sitting through an entire defense is tedious at best - and they did it twice! I’d also like to thank the other Ph.D. students Faraz Faghri, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Shadi Noghabi, Xiao (Chris) Cai, and Hassan Eslami who have all been very supportive. All of you have helped to provide a Ph.D. support group of sorts - the program would have been a lot less fun without you! I’d also like to thank the numerous other SRG members I’ve worked with over the years including: Arian Azin,