I am thankful to the many funding sources that have funded us throughout this project, specifically the National Science Foundation CBET (1512598), the NSF CAREER Award CBET (1653925), Mexico’s National Council of Science and Technology (CONACyT), and the American Heart Association Grant (16SDG26940002). Thank you so much Dr. Imoukhuede, for your wonderful mentorship and example both professionally and personally. I can honestly say that I am a better teacher and researcher under your tutelage and I cannot thank you enough. Without your guidance and support, I could not have gotten to this point. I also would like to thank both the late Scott Maclaren and Dr. Dianwen Zhang from the University of Illinois Fredrich Seitz Material Research Laboratory and Beckman Institute for AFM and microscopy training. Thank you as well to the Imoukhuede Lab, in which I have found not only a work place, but also a secondary home. All of you have been the most wonderful lab mates and I am truly honored to call you my friends. A special thanks to Dr. Jared Weddell, Stacie Chen, Spencer Mamer, and Wendy Woods from the Imoukhuede Lab, as well as Stefan Gentile and Mohammad Usama Zahid from our neighbor labs for being my sounding board and emotional support throughout this doctorate. You all are wonderful, and I am forever in your debt. I would also like to thank the countless mentors and teachers that have helped me throughout my career, as well the innumerable friends that I have made here who have all helped to push me to become the researcher that I am today. I could not have made it without all of your guidance, and lessons. I strive to be the kind of teacher that you all were to me. Thank you all for everything you all have done. Additionally, I would like to thank all of my undergraduate and graduate students for your assistance with experiments, but also for teaching me how to be a better mentor and researcher.  A special thank you to Reema Patel and Kinsey Schultheis for all of your assistance and research, and I wish the best for both of you in all of your future endeavors. Lastly, I wish to thank my parents and family for their undying support and being my moral, spiritual, and academic compasses. In addition, a significant and huge thank you to my greatest and bestest friends- Dr. Ritu Raman and Corinne Matthews for your advice, assistance, and constant presence in both my personal and professional lives. Thank you for being my emotional lifelines, my role models, as well as my constant mentors. I truly appreciate it.