This would not have been possible without many people. Firstly, I would like to acknowledge my advisor and mentor, So Hirata. I have learned more than I ever could have imagined and produced some amazing work with his help and guidance. I am extremely grateful for the self-motivated environment that he cultivated in his lab. It has also been a great experience sharing this lab with many enthusiastic and intelligent col- leagues. Former group members, Misha, Matt, and Ryan demonstrated a daunting level of knowl- edge and technique that inspired me to improve and establish myself as a prominent researcher in the lab. I would like to especially thank Misha for all of his patience and constant assistance during my first year. I would not have been able to accomplish what I did in this time without him. Newer lab members, Alex and Evan have provided a fun and exciting environment to do research being open to collaborating on programming techniques and discussing general theories. I would also especially like to thank Alex for his abundant expertise in programming and helping me throughout the process with my many questions. At my undergraduate university, University of St. Thomas, I would like the specially thank Dr. Gary Mabbott and Dr. Joseph Brom. If Gary would not have persuaded me to switch into computational research from experimental I probably never would have had the opportunity to accomplish the things I have up until now. And Joe, for being willing to take me under his wing and teach me all he had to know about computational chemistry. His passion for teaching was infectious and incredibly inspiring. I would also like to thank Dr. Magda Stolarska for her support in my love of mathematics and pushing me to pursue more advanced math which has immensely helped in understanding and developing new ideas in my research. Most importantly, I must thank all of my friends and family who have shaped my life over the years. My mom has always been a positive force in my life and has always been my number one fan. I would like to thank my lovely girlfriend Cara. I would not be the person I am today without her. Her endless support, patience, and honesty with me has been invaluable during this whole process. I am incredibly lucky to have all of these great people in my life and I can’t wait to see where we all end up.