First and foremost, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my advisor, Professor Jun Song, for his constant support and guidance in my research, as well as in my life. I would like to thank him for his optimism and encouragement, which helped me through every frustrating moment in research projects, publishing processes, and fellowship and job applications. I would like to thank him for his open-mindedness, which led me to explore a broad realm of subjects in physics, biology, and statistics outside my thesis research, and prepared me with a precious open mindset going forward in my future career. I would like to thank him for his vision. His scientific vision has always led me to unique and significant research ideas. His vision in career development has always been one step ahead and ensured a smooth progress in my five-year graduate training. Finally, I would like to thank him for his inspirations, influences, and more importantly, his criticism, which has always been in the right way and at the right time. He has made me a better researcher and a better person; and I am grateful for that. I would like to thank Tomas Rube for helping me through the first couple of years in the group, when I was struggling in the transition from physics to biology, from doing experiments to performing computational analysis. His pep talk after each group meeting was always a timely encouragement; his passion, smart ideas, and deep thoughts really helped my research to take off; and the quality of his research has always been something that I look up to. I would like to thank Miroslav Hejna for teaching me every technique in sequencing data analysis and answering every of my questions with great patience. I would like to thank other members in the Song group, who made my daily life much more pleasant and productive. They are Alex Pankov, Robert Bell, Courtney Onodera, Minji Kim, Mohith Manjunath, Alex Finnegan, Jake Leistico, Alan Luu, Wooyoung Moon, Jialu Yan, Yi Zhang (yzhan201), Chenchao Zhao, and Yeonsung Kim. I would like to thank my collaborators on both the nucleosome project and other joint projects during my PhD studies. They are Tomas Rube, Alex Finnegan, Julia Ye, Alex Pankov, Professor Robert Blelloch, Aydan Bulut-Karslioglu, Professor Miguel Ramalho-Santos, Wendy Woods, Michael Gapinske, Professor Pablo Perez-Pinera, and Professor Jaehyuk Choi. I would like to thank Professor Taekjip Ha for inspiring